      INTERNATIONAL                                                              IEC
      STANDARD                                                              60384-9-1
                                                                                      QC 300701

                                                                                  Second edition
                                                                                       2005-05




      Fixed capacitors for use in electronic equipment –

    Part 9-1:
    Blank detail specification:
    Fixed capacitors of ceramic dielectric,
    Class
   iTeh   2 – Assessment
         STANDARD           level EZ
                         PREVIEW
                (standards.iteh.ai)
                             IEC 60384-9-1:2005
https://standards.iteh.ai/catalog/standards/sist/e730a683-b975-47a6-9847-
                     c20180cbd68a/iec-60384-9-1-2005




                                                                                 Reference number
                                                                             IEC 60384-9-1:2005(E)
Publication numbering
As from 1 January 1997 all IEC publications are issued with a designation in the
60000 series. For example, IEC 34-1 is now referred to as IEC 60034-1.


Consolidated editions
The IEC is now publishing consolidated versions of its publications. For example,
edition numbers 1.0, 1.1 and 1.2 refer, respectively, to the base publication, the
base publication incorporating amendment 1 and the base publication incorporating
amendments 1 and 2.


Further information on IEC publications
The technical content of IEC publications is kept under constant review by the IEC,
thus ensuring that the content reflects current technology. Information relating to
this publication, including its validity, is available in the IEC Catalogue of
publications (see below) in addition to new editions, amendments and corrigenda.
Information on the subjects under consideration and work in progress undertaken
by the technical committee which has prepared this publication, as well as the list
of publications issued, is also available from the following:

•   IEC Web Site (www.iec.ch)

•   Catalogue of IEC publications
    The on-line catalogue on the IEC web site (www.iec.ch/searchpub) enables you to
    search by a variety of criteria including text searches, technical committees
    and date of publication. On-line information is also available on recently issued
          iTeh STANDARD PREVIEW
    publications, withdrawn and replaced publications, as well as corrigenda.

•
               (standards.iteh.ai)
    IEC Just Published
    This summary of recently issued publications (www.iec.ch/online_news/ justpub)
    is also available by email. Please contact the Customer Service Centre (see
                                 IEC 60384-9-1:2005
    below) for further information.
      https://standards.iteh.ai/catalog/standards/sist/e730a683-b975-47a6-9847-
•   Customer Service Centre
                      c20180cbd68a/iec-60384-9-1-2005
    If you have any questions regarding this publication or need further assistance,
    please contact the Customer Service Centre:

    Email: custserv@iec.ch
    Tel:   +41 22 919 02 11
    Fax: +41 22 919 03 00
      INTERNATIONAL                                                               IEC
      STANDARD                                                               60384-9-1
                                                                                                 QC 300701

                                                                                          Second edition
                                                                                               2005-05




      Fixed capacitors for use in electronic equipment –

    Part 9-1:
    Blank detail specification:
    Fixed capacitors of ceramic dielectric,
    Class
   iTeh   2 – Assessment
         STANDARD           level EZ
                         PREVIEW
                (standards.iteh.ai)
                             IEC 60384-9-1:2005
https://standards.iteh.ai/catalog/standards/sist/e730a683-b975-47a6-9847-
                     c20180cbd68a/iec-60384-9-1-2005




       IEC 2005  Copyright - all rights reserved
      No part of this publication may be reproduced or utilized in any form or by any means, electronic or
      mechanical, including photocopying and microfilm, without permission in writing from the publisher.

      International Electrotechnical Commission, 3, rue de Varembé, PO Box 131, CH-1211 Geneva 20, Switzerland
      Telephone: +41 22 919 02 11 Telefax: +41 22 919 03 00 E-mail: inmail@iec.ch Web: www.iec.ch




                        Com mission Electrotechnique Internationale
                        International Electrotechnical Com m ission
                                                                                  PRICE CODE                   M
                        Международная Электротехническая Комиссия
                                                                                  For price, see current catalogue
                                                          –2–                            60384-9-1  IEC:2005(E)

                 INTERNATIONAL ELECTROTECHNICAL COMMISSION
                                 ____________

          FIXED CAPACITORS FOR USE IN ELECTRONIC EQUIPMENT –

                           Part 9-1: Blank detail specification:
                     Fixed capacitors of ceramic dielectric, Class 2 –
                                  Assessment level EZ


                                                   FOREWORD
1) The International Electrotechnical Commission (IEC) is a worldwide organization for standardization comprising
   all national electrotechnical committees (IEC National Committees). The object of IEC is to promote
   international co-operation on all questions concerning standardization in the electrical and electronic fields. To
   this end and in addition to other activities, IEC publishes International Standards, Technical Specifications,
   Technical Reports, Publicly Available Specifications (PAS) and Guides (hereafter referred to as “IEC
   Publication(s)”). Their preparation is entrusted to technical committees; any IEC National Committee interested
   in the subject dealt with may participate in this preparatory work. International, governmental and non-
   governmental organizations liaising with the IEC also participate in this preparation. IEC collaborates closely
   with the International Organization for Standardization (ISO) in accordance with conditions determined by
   agreement between the two organizations.
2) The formal decisions or agreements of IEC on technical matters express, as nearly as possible, an international
   consensus of opinion on the relevant subjects since each technical committee has representation from all
   interested IEC National Committees.

                            iTeh STANDARD PREVIEW
3) IEC Publications have the form of recommendations for international use and are accepted by IEC National
   Committees in that sense. While all reasonable efforts are made to ensure that the technical content of IEC
   Publications is accurate, IEC cannot be held responsible for the way in which they are used or for any
                                 (standards.iteh.ai)
   misinterpretation by any end user.
4) In order to promote international uniformity, IEC National Committees undertake to apply IEC Publications
   transparently to the maximum extent possible    IEC in their    national and regional publications. Any divergence
                                                        60384-9-1:2005
   between any IEC Publication and the corresponding         national or regional publication shall be clearly indicated in
                      https://standards.iteh.ai/catalog/standards/sist/e730a683-b975-47a6-9847-
   the latter.
                                          c20180cbd68a/iec-60384-9-1-2005
5) IEC provides no marking procedure to indicate its approval and cannot be rendered responsible for any
   equipment declared to be in conformity with an IEC Publication.
6) All users should ensure that they have the latest edition of this publication.
7) No liability shall attach to IEC or its directors, employees, servants or agents including individual experts and
   members of its technical committees and IEC National Committees for any personal injury, property damage or
   other damage of any nature whatsoever, whether direct or indirect, or for costs (including legal fees) and
   expenses arising out of the publication, use of, or reliance upon, this IEC Publication or any other IEC
   Publications.
8) Attention is drawn to the Normative references cited in this publication. Use of the referenced publications is
   indispensable for the correct application of this publication.
9) Attention is drawn to the possibility that some of the elements of this IEC Publication may be the subject of
   patent rights. IEC shall not be held responsible for identifying any or all such patent rights.

International Standard IEC 60384-9-1 has been prepared by IEC technical committee 40:
Capacitors and resistors for electronic equipment

This second edition cancels and replaces the first edition published in 1988. This second
edition is a result of maintenance activities related to the previous edition. All changes that
have been agreed upon can be categorized as minor revisions.


The text of this standard is based on the following documents:

                                           FDIS                     Report on voting

                                      40/1531/FDIS                   40/1551/RVD


Full information on the voting for the approval of this standard can be found in the report on
voting indicated in the above table.
60384-9-1  IEC:2005(E)                               –3–

This publication has been drafted in accordance with the ISO/IEC Directives, Part 2.

IEC 60384 consists of the following parts, under the general title Fixed capacitors for use in
electronic equipment:

Part 1:     Generic specification
Part 2:     Sectional specification: Fixed metallized polyethylene-terephthalate film dielectric
            d.c. capacitors
Part 3:     Sectional specification: Fixed tantalum chip capacitors
Part 4:     Sectional specification: Aluminium electrolytic capacitors with solid and non-solid
            electrolyte
Part 5:     Sectional specification: Fixed mica dielectric d.c. capacitors with a rated voltage not
            exceeding 3000 V – Selection of methods of test and general requirements
Part 6:     Sectional specification:        Fixed     metallized      polycarbonate        film   dielectric   d.c.
            capacitors
Part 7:     Sectional specification: Fixed polystyrene film dielectric metal foil d.c. capacitors
Part 8:     Sectional specification: Fixed capacitors of ceramic dielectric, Class 1
Part 9:     Sectional specification: Fixed capacitors of ceramic dielectric, Class 2
Part 11:    Sectional specification: Fixed polyethylene-terephthalate film dielectric metal foil
            d.c. capacitors
Part 12:    Sectional specification: Fixed polycarbonate film dielectric metal foil d.c. capacitors
Part 13:
                   iTeh STANDARD PREVIEW
            Sectional specification: Fixed polypropylene film dielectric metal foil d.c. capacitors
                             (standards.iteh.ai)
Part 14: Sectional specification: Fixed capacitors for electromagnetic interference
            suppression and connection to the supply mains
Part 15:    Sectional specification: FixedIEC 60384-9-1:2005
                                            tantalum  capacitors with non-solid or solid electrolyte
                     https://standards.iteh.ai/catalog/standards/sist/e730a683-b975-47a6-9847-
Part 16:    Sectional specification: Fixed metallized polypropylene                        film   dielectric   d.c.
                                  c20180cbd68a/iec-60384-9-1-2005
            capacitors
Part 17:    Sectional specification: Fixed metallized polypropylene film dielectric a.c. and pulse
            capacitors
Part 18:    Sectional specification: Fixed aluminium electrolytic chip capacitors with solid and
            non-solid electrolyte
Part 19:    Sectional specification: Fixed metallized polyethylene-terephthalate film dielectric
            chip d.c. capacitors
Part 20:    Sectional specification: Fixed metallized polyphenylene sulfide film dielectric chip
            d.c. capacitors
Part 21:    Sectional specification: Fixed surface mount multilayer capacitors of ceramic
            dielectric, Class 1
Part 22:    Sectional specification: Fixed surface mount multilayer capacitors of ceramic
            dielectric, Class 2
Part 23:    Sectional specification: Fixed surface mount metallized polyethylene naphthalate
            film dielectric d.c. capacitors 1
Part 24:    Sectional specification – Surface mount fixed tantalum electrolytic capacitors with
            conductive polymer solid electrolyte①
Part 25:    Sectional specification – Surface mount fixed aluminium electrolytic capacitors with
            conductive polymer solid electrolyte①




———————
1 To be published.
                                                    –4–                            60384-9-1  IEC:2005(E)


The QC number that appears on the front cover of this publication is the specification number
in the IECQ Quality Assessment System for Electronic Components.

The committee has decided that the contents of this publication will remain unchanged until
the maintenance result date indicated on the IEC web site under "http://webstore.iec.ch" in
the data related to the specific publication. At this date, the publication will be

•   reconfirmed,
•   withdrawn,
•   replaced by a revised edition, or
•   amended.


A bilingual version of this publication may be issued at a later date.




                      iTeh STANDARD PREVIEW
                           (standards.iteh.ai)
                                                IEC 60384-9-1:2005
                   https://standards.iteh.ai/catalog/standards/sist/e730a683-b975-47a6-9847-
                                        c20180cbd68a/iec-60384-9-1-2005
60384-9-1  IEC:2005(E)                          –5–

        FIXED CAPACITORS FOR USE IN ELECTRONIC EQUIPMENT –

                        Part 9-1: Blank detail specification:
                  Fixed capacitors of ceramic dielectric, Class 2 –
                               Assessment level EZ



Blank detail specification

A blank detail specification is a supplementary document to the sectional specification and
contains requirements for style and layout and minimum content of detail specifications. Detail
specifications not complying with these requirements may not be considered as being in
accordance with IEC specifications nor shall they be so described.

In the preparation of detail specifications, the content of 1.4 of the sectional specification shall
be taken into account.

The numbers between brackets on the first page correspond to the following information,
which shall be inserted in the position indicated:

Identification of the detail specification

[1]
                       iTeh STANDARD PREVIEW
      The "International Electrotechnical Commission" or the National Standards Organization
                            (standards.iteh.ai)
      under whose authority the detail specification is drafted.
[2]   The IEC or National Standards number of the detail specification, date of issue and any
      further information required by the
                                        IECnational system.
                                            60384-9-1:2005
[3]              https://standards.iteh.ai/catalog/standards/sist/e730a683-b975-47a6-9847-
      The number and    issue number of the IEC or national generic specification.
                                    c20180cbd68a/iec-60384-9-1-2005
[4]   The IEC number of the blank detail specification.

Identification of the capacitor

[5]   A short description of the type of capacitor.
[6]   Information on typical construction (when applicable).

      When the capacitor is not designed for use in printed board applications, this shall be
      clearly stated in the detail specification in this position.

[7]   Outline drawing with main dimensions, which are of importance for interchangeability
      and/or reference to the national or international documents for outlines. Alternatively,
      this drawing may be given in an appendix to the detail specification.
[8]   Application or group of applications covered and/or assessment level.

      The assessment level(s) to be used in a detail specification shall be selected from the
      sectional specification, 3.5.4. This implies that one blank detail specification may be
      used in combination with several assessment levels provided the grouping of the tests
      does not change.

[9]   Reference data on the most important properties, to allow comparison between the
      various capacitor types.
                                                        –6–                           60384-9-1  IEC:2005(E)




                                 [1]                                  IEC 60384-9-1-XXX                       [2]
                                                                      QC 300701-XXX


ELECTRONIC COMPONENTS OF ASSESSED QUALITY IN                          IEC 60384-9-1                           [4]
ACCORDANCE WITH:                                                      QC 300701


                                                                      FIXED CAPACITORS OF                     [5]
                                 [3]                                  CERAMIC DIELECTRIC, CLASS 2


Outline drawing: (see Table 1)
(… angle projection)


                                                                                                              [6]

                                 [7]




                                                                      Assessment level(s): EZ                 [8]
(Other shapes are permitted within the dimensions given)




                            iTeh STANDARD PREVIEW
                            Information on the availability of components qualified to this
                                 detail specification is given in the IEC QC 001005.

                                 (standards.iteh.ai)                                                          [9]


                                               IEC 60384-9-1:2005
1     General data
                  https://standards.iteh.ai/catalog/standards/sist/e730a683-b975-47a6-9847-
                                       c20180cbd68a/iec-60384-9-1-2005
1.1      Recommended method(s) of mounting (to be inserted)

(See IEC 60384-9, 1.4.2).

1.2      Dimensions
                            Table 1 – Case size reference and dimensions

      Case size reference                                        Dimensions (in mm)

                                       ∅        L            H            d        .......




 When there is no case size reference, Table 1 may be omitted and the dimensions shall be given in Table 2,
 which then becomes Table 1.
 The dimensions shall be given as maximum dimensions or as nominal dimensions with a tolerance.
60384-9-1  IEC:2005(E)                             –7–


1.3   Ratings and characteristics

Rated capacitance range (see Table 2)
Tolerance on rated capacitance
Rated voltage
Climatic category
Rated temperature
Tangent of loss angle
Insulation resistance
Temperature characteristic of capacitance

           Table 2 – Values of capacitance and of voltage related to case sizes

            Rated voltage


Rated capacitance        Tolerance           Case size         Case size         Case size        Case size
 (in pF and/or nF)
                             %




                     Table 3 – Temperature characteristic of capacitance

            Temperature                                   Permissible capacitance variation
               range     iTeh STANDARD PREVIEWWith no voltage applied                 With U R applied

            -… °C/ +… °C
                              (standards.iteh.ai)  +… % / –… %                         +… % / –… %

                                             IEC 60384-9-1:2005
1.4   Normative references
                 https://standards.iteh.ai/catalog/standards/sist/e730a683-b975-47a6-9847-
                                      c20180cbd68a/iec-60384-9-1-2005
The following referenced documents are indispensable for the application of this document.
For dated references, only the edition cited applies. For undated references, the latest edition
of the referenced document (including any amendments) applies.

IEC 60384-9:200X, Fixed capacitors for use in electronic equipment. Part 9: Sectional
specification: Fixed capacitors of ceramic dielectric, Class 2

IEC 60410:1973, Sampling plans and procedures for inspection by attributes

1.5   Marking

The marking of the capacitor and the packing shall be in accordance with the requirements of
IEC 60384-9, 1.6.

The details of the marking of the component and packing shall be given in full in the detail
specification.

1.6   Ordering information

Orders for capacitors covered by this specification shall contain, in clear or in coded form, the
following minimum information:

a) rated capacitance;
b) tolerance on rated capacitance;
c) rated d.c. voltage;
d) temperature characteristic of capacitance;
e) number and issue reference of the detail specification and style reference.
