Abstract Key Takeaways Figures Introduction Results and Discussion Conclusions References FAQs All Topics Engineering Materials Engineering download Download Free PDF Download Free PDF Effect of Cr additions on the microstructural stability of Ni electrodes in ultra-thin BaTiO3 multilayer capacitors Taehee Jeong 2007, Journal of Electroceramics https://doi.org/10.1007/S10832-007-9124-4 visibility … description 8 pages description See full PDF download Download PDF bookmark Save to Library share Share close Sign up for access to the world's latest research Sign up for free arrow_forward check Get notified about relevant papers check Save papers to use in your research check Join the discussion with peers check Track your impact Abstract Microstructural control in thin-layer multilayer ceramic capacitors (MLCC) is one of the present day challenges to maintain an increase in capacitive volumetric efficiency. This present paper opens a series of investigations aimed to engineer the stability of ultra-thin Ni electrodes in BaTiO 3-based multilayer capacitors using refractory metal additions to Ni. Here, pure Ni and Ni-1 wt.% Cr alloy powders are used to produce 0805-type BME MLCCs with 300 active layers and with dielectric and electrode layer thickness around 1 μm. To investigate the continuity of Ni electrodes, both MLCC chips with pure and doped electrodes were sintered at different temperatures for 5 h. It is found that the continuity of Ni electrodes is improved most likely due to the effect of Cr on the lowmelting point (Ni,Ba,Ti) interfacial alloy layer formation. The interfacial alloy layer is not observed when Cr is segregated at Ni-BaTiO 3 interface in the Cr-doped samples, while it is found in all undoped samples. The interfacial alloy layer is believed to increase mass-transfer along the Ni-BaTiO 3 interfaces facilitating an acceleration of Ni electrodes discontinuities. ... Read more Key takeaways AI Cr additions to Ni electrodes enhance microstructural stability in ultra-thin Ni-BaTiO3 multilayer capacitors. The study evaluates the effects of Cr on the continuity and stability of Ni electrodes. Electrode continuity decreases non-linearly with increasing sintering temperature, especially in undoped samples. The presence of a (Ni,Ba,Ti) alloy layer is suppressed in Cr-doped electrodes, improving stability. Cr diffusion into BaTiO3 increases oxygen vacancies, affecting interfacial contact resistance. Figures (9) arrow_back_ios Fig. 2 Continuity of Ni electrodes in Ni-BaTiO; MLCCs after co- firing at different temperatures for 5 h Fig. 4 Comparison of sintering kinetics for undoped and Cr-doped Ni electrode materials as well as the BaTiO3 based dielectric material inis paper reports the erectS of Cr additions to te Nt electrodes on the multilayer microstructural evolution and interfacial reactions during co-sintering in conditions typical of those encountered in MLCC production. Chro- mium is a well known nickel additive [20-22]. It has a much higher melting temperature (Tmc,=1,857°C) com- pared to Ni (Tmy;=1,453°C) and a negative enthalpy of mixing with Ni and Ti. Also, Ni-Cr alloys are commonly used for high-temperature structural and electrical applica- tions. The effect of Cr on the Ni electrode continuity and, especially, on the MLCC’s electrical properties is difficult to predict. While Cr has a very high affinity to oxygen (AH,x=—1,135 kJmol) and could reduce the Ni-BaTiO3 interfacial free energy leading to lower contact resistance [23-25], the addition of Cr to Ni has also been reported to decrease the grain boundary energy [26], which could result in the improvement of Ni layers stability due to the reduction of 7¥gp/Yint ratio. To help elucidate the role of Cr on interface chemistry and improved electrode stability, we perform microstructural and microchemical analyses by transmission electron microscopy (TEM) and electron energy loss spectroscopy (EELS). The effect of Cr addition on the electrical properties will be discussed in a following paper (Polotai, unpublished). Table 1 Chemical composition and thickness of interfacial layers between Ni and BaTiO; at different co-firing temperatures. Ihe sintered MLCC samples were characterized by voltage contrast-scanning electron microscopy (VC-SEM), high resolution-transmission electron microscopy (HR- TEM), energy dispersive X-ray spectroscopy (EDS) and electron energy loss spectroscopy (EELS). VC-SEM imag- ing was performed using a HITACHI S-3000H SEM operated with an accelerating voltage of 2.5 kV and a DC field of 7 V applied across the MLCC electrodes. In the VC-SEM mode, the negatively biased electrodes are brighter than the surrounding area and allow better observation of imperfections in the electrode and dielectric ayers. If there is a discontinuous region in the electrode, hat area appears dark in the VC-SEM image obtained by a negative polarity [Fig 2(b)]. The microstructure and micro- chemistry of the dielectric-electrode interfaces were ana- yzed using a JEOL-2010 field-emission TEM operated at 200 kV, equipped with Gatan Enfina EEL spectrometer and an Oxford Systems EDS detector. A low-background beryllium Gatan double-tilt holder was used to reduce the production of spurious X-rays. The HR-TEM images of the interfaces between Ni and BaTiO; were recorded with a Gatan CCD camera. The continuity of the Ni electrodes was quantified based on measurements from the VC-SEM images. The total length of the electrode and the lengths of imperfections were measured and normalized for each VC-SEM image. Average values and standard deviations were calculated from more than five VC-SEM images for each MLCC sample. A different situation was observed in multilayer capaci- tors with Cr additions to the Ni electrodes. Two different The chemical composition of the interface layer in undoped specimens as function of sintering temperature was determined though quantification of EEL spectra and is presented in Table | together with measured layer thick- nesses. These values are also in good agreement with those obtained by Yang at al. [17]. Within the experimental errors, the interface layer composition and its thickness are mostly independent of the sintering temperature. dielectric material was carried out by dilatation experiments (Fig. 4). The undoped and Cr-doped Ni pellets produced from the corresponding electrode inks showed very similar densification curves compared to the dielectric material. The similar densification behaviors of both Cr-doped and unmodified Ni indicate that the level of elastic strain energy generated during sintering will be quite similar for both types of electrode materials, so the differences in the electrode stability cannot be attributed to differences in internal stresses. presence of an interfacial layer about 8 nm thick [17]. Moiré fringes are apparent in the Ni electrode region, which is most likely due to surface oxidation of the Ni, while they are absent in the interface region. The appearance of a coherent (Ni,Ba,Ti) alloy at the interface is confirmed by high resolution TEM technique and EELS analysis [Fig. 5(b)]. EEL spectra 2, 3 and 4, acquired from the interfacial layer, exhibit a Ni L.3 edge along with Ti L23 and Ba M,; edges without an O K edge. These results are consistent with our previous observations from numerous Ni-BaTiO3 MLCC samples. [16-18]. Fig. 9 The EEL spectrum obtained from BaTiO; grains adjacent to Ni-BaTiO3 interface in Cr-doped samples, which shows the existence of the reduced Ti** ions types of Ni-BaTiO3 interfaces were found in Cr-doped samples sintered at 1,250°C for 5 h: (1) interfaces with Cr segregation and without the formation of interfacial alloy ayer; (2) interfaces without Cr segregation and with the formation of interfacial alloy layer. The appearance of two types of interfaces is attributed to inhomogeneous Cr distributions in the original Ni paste used in the MLCC production. Figure 6 shows a typical HR-TEM image and corr
